{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11860\viewh11760\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Steps\
- Created Postgres Database and table\
- Loaded files for entire year of 2020\
- Exported combined flat / csv file into Tableau\
\
Analysis\
- First phenomenon - Looked at metrics of originating station.  \
- While there are many bike stations, the average trip duration is highest in stations (e.g., the Bronx) outside of the more densely populated areas (Manhattan) \
- The volume of where trips originate is greater in more dense areas ( lower manhattan/midtown), but as we see from the first visualization, these trips tend to be much shorter in duration.  This was unexpected. I expected to see a larger duration of trips in/around central park.  \
- From the third visualization (looking at the top 20 stations by volume) we can see that males make up the largest percentage of riders across all stations.  \
- From the fourth visualization, we also see that the largest number of users (across the top 20 stations are subscribers - not random customers. \
\
Second phenomenon\
Looking at trips (started) by month for the year 2020\
- From the first visualization we see that the trips taken by men are significantly higher than those taken by women almost by 2x in September\
- From the second visualization, we see that for the trips started (based on the user\'92s birth year) 1969 is the most common \'93birth year\'94 for trips, but the numbers then shift to birth years in the late 80s/early 90s.  I reviewed the data but could not pinpoint why 1969 stands out.  This age distribution was an unexpected phenome na\
- From the third visualization, we can see that the duration (of the combined trips) (i.e, usage of the service) has increased significantly over the year - and has peaked in September. \
- From the fourth visualization, we can see the trip duration by gender - It is highest with males (as we would expect from the number of trips we previously saw. \
- From the fifth visualization, we see the duration of trips taken by. subscribers vs non subscribers.  The numbers are not that far off (in comparison to each other) - leading us to believe that subscribers may ride more, but not for as long.  This also was unexpected. \
\
\
}